---
title: Why I Committed Social Suicide
---

> This is an article I originally published on Medium before I decided I wanted to control my publishing platforms myself. I find this article no longer relevant, or written in such a manner it doesn't get my point across in the best way. Still, it's here because I don't like deleting things forever.

# Article
```
# Why I Committed Social Suicide

*This was originally published on Medium, but is no longer available
there.*

I deleted all my social media accounts, and I think you should, too.
Allow me to explain why.

Social media, for me, was one of the biggest sources of anxiety and
depression in my life. Even though I kept a close circle, and only
followed friends and people I knew well, it still seemed like I was
missing out on something. I hated having to use social media to keep up
with someone's life. In fact, why did I even feel the need to keep up
with someone else's life? I had my own life to live.

I would waste hours on social media, scrolling through the endless feeds
of pictures and thoughts and: "Look at me, look at how successful I am."

One day, I realized something. I spent a lot of time thinking about what
kind of things I would post on social media. Typically, they were my
best moments. Moment's I was proud of and wanted to share. I didn't want
to share the time when I got too drunk at the hotel bar, forgot the
layout of my room, and walked full-speed into the wall after entering my
room.

This led me to believe that most people, not all, but the majority of
social media users filter and choose how they want the outside world to
see them. This lead me to think they weren't human anymore.

Social media is stealing our humanity. How can anyone be so perfect all
the time? Where are the mistakes, the bad times, the darkness?

---

In the case of Facebook, I even tried [a hack to hide the News Feed][0],
so I could still access other features of Facebook like the chat,
events, and groups. This worked for a few weeks, until I jumped into the
privacy rabbit hole - my, oh my, what a deep rabbit hole that is.

It was that moment, that instance, when I decided I was going to
minimize the amount of data companies would be able to sell of mine.

[0]: https://github.com/maxfriedrich/quiet-facebook

---

I didn't announce the fact I was leaving social media. I didn't give
people alternate ways to contact me. In fact, anyone who should need to
reach me, should already have my phone number.

I just deleted it all. I downloaded all my data, and once that data was
safely stored in my possession, I hit the delete button.

I already feel better.
```